________________
1
Monterey






It was a German exchange student that once told me this: that if you looked with care onto the ocean’s horizon, provided that the view was wide enough, you could see the curvature of the Earth. You need to know how to look at it just the right way. Look too close, and you won’t see the big picture. Look too wide, and the whole thing just becomes a flat blue line. I never quite figured out how to strike the right balance, never saw the curve. Every time the exchange student and I would walk down to that beloved beach from our school in Monterey, he would try and teach me, his accent getting thicker over time with amusement and frustration. He tried again and again, until it was the end of the year and he had to go back to his home in Germany, where he could see the curve from the Atlantic rather than the Pacific.
        To this day, I still haven’t figured out how. But every time I revisit that shore, I try my hardest. Sometimes I finally see the curve, get excited, then realize that I’ve only fooled myself into thinking that it was there. Still, I make an honest attempt whenever I visit.
        Today, as it was every time, it was November, when the ocean breeze went from pleasant to slightly hurting your skin, so that just like last time and every time before that, I wished that I had brought my jacket. Then my roommate, Martin, gave me a thousand different variations of “I told you so,” today being no exception. I used to think that it was annoying, condescending even, but nowadays I find it to be charming. Like sentences from a fortune cookie. 
This was how it was every time. 
I haven’t actually been there in years, of course.
        The beach changed its color depending on the sunlight. The sand was a shimmering white on sunny days and a calm ivory on cloudy ones. Clumps of black seaweed and broken branches dotted the beach, and the waves dissipated into white as they slammed against the jagged black rocks by the shore. The color of the ocean followed a similar pattern as the color of the beaches–an enchanting turquoise when the skies were blue, and a dark, nearly black navy when the skies were gray. Out in the deep waters, colossal kelp forests that stretched from the surface all the way down to the ocean floor performed their ritual dance. The view of the horizon was completely unobstructed–so much so that all I could see from one corner of my eyes to the other was the sky and the ocean. On the horizon the sun went down with gold rays, kind enough to let us admire it without hurting our eyes. The beach was the sort of place you started to miss even when you were there. I wished that my eyes were like a camera lens, able to zoom out to capture more.
        To the right of me was Martin, and to the left, Gordon. Gordon was the “honorary roommate.” If you wanted to find him during lunch, or after school, your best bet was to come to Room 207, where he would be sprawled out on the floor with Martin and I. Gordon was a stand-up guy, the type to always keep a smile handy and to laugh at every joke you told him. The great part was that he didn’t laugh to be nice, although no doubt he was kind, but because he genuinely found it funny. He understood that the best joke you could tell was to laugh at someone else’s.
        After Martin’s long string of reprimands for my grave mistake of not listening to him about the jacket was over, we stared in silence at the infinite horizon with its waves, rocks, birds, and the setting Sun. When Martin asked what we should have for dinner, I knew that I should be taking my leave soon. 
It was a Friday afternoon, and we were three high schoolers in their senior year. We were in Monterey, California, a place so beautiful that calling it so would be redundant. The weekend with its promises of laughter and leisure was ahead of us, assuring us that Sunday night was far away and Monday morning would never come. It was perhaps the most mundane scene, but these days I can’t help but think that it would make for a good movie. One of those coming-of-age movies released during the summer. One with a bittersweet ending that makes you lovesick.
Martin nudged me on the side with his elbow. “Josh, you ready to stop staring at the sea and go?” he asked.
I was, but not to where they were headed. I would have loved to–to feast on good food and the even better spirits of a Friday night, but I had overindulged already.
Gordon pulled over onto the dirt path in his car. It was time. 
________________
2
Martin






It’s like picking a part in a movie and rewatching it. Or rather, like picking out a chapter in a choose-your-own-adventure book and playing it out.
        As soon as my eyes opened, irritation flooded my skin like needles of short hair. The tranquil beach of Monterey was gone, replaced by a hectic street in New York. The pleasant song of ocean birds was now the annoyed clamor of traffic, and in the place of my two dear friends were faceless strangers. 
I let out the cough of a coal miner and began running my fingers through the wooden bowl in front of me. Most of them were quarters, as it often was, but there were a few crumpled dollar bills mixed in. I sat in the same spot, waiting and occasionally thanking strangers for their kindness. When it became dark, I counted again. It wasn’t much, but it was enough to get something to eat.  
After my dinner of canned beans, the streetlights reached their peak brightness for the night, with hunched bodies hurrying home under them. A whole lot must wait for them back home. Good food. A pet, or better yet, a lover. A bed with a soft pillow and warm sheets. I wanted to lie down on a real bed, instead of this pitiful excuse for a mattress made of thick cardboard. It was good, then, that I knew just where to go.
* * *
The blinds of my dorm room were broken. They were like that when I arrived in my room at the beginning of the year, and like that when I had to leave. One of the horizontal vanes around the middle was snapped in half, and lights from the other rooms would peer in through it. Some of the faculty lived on campus–dorm parents, they were called. One of them, Ms. Jameison, lived right across my window senior year. Ms. Jameison, if the lights of her house were telling the truth, went to sleep late most nights. If you had her for English the next day, you’d hear her complaining about mornings, an airtight grip around her coffee. I often made a game out of which one of us would go to sleep sooner with the light through my broken blinds as the judge. I lost most nights. As I visualized the striped shadows that Ms. Jameison’s apartment lights cast against the white walls of my dorm, I found myself there.
        It was 2:03 in the morning, and my bed, while an ocean’s weight better than pieces of soggy cardboard, was a bit damp. Sam Hanely did not wash his sheets too frequently–just one of a multitude of flaws he had in high school, but I suppose this was nothing compared to the other ones. I threw the damp sheets back and sat up. The room was small with whitewashed walls and a carpeted floor. Its organization was perfect, a beautiful mess that I’ve always been proud of. The bed was placed along the wall with the window, straight across from the entrance to the room. To your right as you entered was a small built-in closet, so close to the entrance that its door and the entrance door would often collide on your way in. Next to the closet was a brown desk with a shelf and a drawer, also placed along the wall, and in front of it, a black swiveling desk chair. On the edge of the desk closer to the bed’s headrest was usually where I put my phone. This arrangement was ingenious–it allowed me to reach my phone from the bed lying down. Across the desk, along the left-hand wall from the entrance, was a cheap electric guitar propped up on a stand. Like the phone, it had the crucial characteristic of being accessible from the bed. Due to the small size of the room, the guitar could also be reached easily from the desk chair. This meant that I could study for a bit on the desk, spin around, fiddle on the guitar (I was never a serious player, but Martin had convinced me to buy a guitar in junior year and was trying to teach me how to play at the time), then leap onto the bed straight from the chair. The bed, desk, and guitar formed a beautiful and convenient triangle, while the room itself was a tiny square. You couldn’t take two full steps from the entrance before bumping into the bed, but its small size allowed for its greatest strength–everything being at an arm’s reach. I loved, and still love, this room.
        The shadowy stripes on the wall disappeared. You win this time, Ms. Jameison.
        I got up and ran my hands through the top of the desk. It was an old desk, the various bruises and scrapes left by the previous residents of the room marking its age. Some were simple doodles, while some appeared to be the initials of past residents. At the center of the desk was a crater about the size of a nickel. Why someone thought that digging it was a good idea or how they went about it has always been beyond me. Too often I would forget about the hole whenever I did my homework, eventually driving my pencil through the paper and into the crater. 
        I moved onto the top desk drawer where I kept all of my homework assignments and took out the entire bundle. I skimmed through the stack, watching the dates grow younger and getting annoyed by the occasional tear in the paper. 
        Next, I went through my then-recent texts on my phone. Have you ever read through your old texts? Even though most of them are just small talk and mindless chatter, they seem so special, almost magical. There is an odd sense of pity involved in watching your old self talk. 
        “You do today’s math yet?” asked Martin that day.
        “Not yet, but I’ll get to it pretty soon,” I replied.
        Then after a few minutes, from Martin: “I don’t want to do it.”
        “You’ll have to if you want to study in New York,” I said.
        “Good point.” Then twenty minutes later: “The city of New York needs your help with question 7.”
These simple sentences drowned me in more sorrow than most books and movies ever could. Go through your old texts. Try it. Close your eyes and scroll and scroll past recent messages for a few minutes, and see where it takes you. The banalest conversations will break your heart. When I revisit scenes like this one, I like to read what I had written back then. Math equations for homework, reminders written in haste, text messages–these things that you would never think of being able to make you melancholy did just that. 
I stopped reading when muffled notes of guitar strings came from the other side of the wall. It was Martin. Now, in senior year, we weren’t actually roommates. We were roommates junior year, in a 2-bedroom dorm right across the hall from my room. The school put seniors in single dorms, but Martin and I wouldn’t have minded sharing a room again senior year: more hilarity ensued that way. Besides, with Gordon practically a resident of our room, we needed the space. We had hoped that we could keep living in our old room come senior year, and while we didn’t get our wish the next year, we got pretty close. Both of us got single rooms–not just in the same building, which we would have been content with–but ones that were right next to each other. Neither of us could believe the coincidence, and at the beginning of the year we went around telling all of our friends about it. We even did the math at one point to figure out how slim the odds were. Our dorm junior year had a partial wall in the middle that divided the room into two halves. So in a way, we’d say, the only thing that changed was the length of the wall. I guess you could say that our unbelievable rooming arrangements were why we continued to refer to each other as roommates, but I think we still would have called each other that, even if we didn’t have adjacent rooms. In fact, I’m willing to bet that if Martin and I were to meet today, wherever he may be now, we would still be referring to each other as “my roommate.”
The walls dampened the notes from the acoustic, but I could still make out the melody: It was “Girl From Ipanema.” Martin was going through a bossa nova phase then. Much like his remarks at the beach, it was only of late that I learned to appreciate Martin;s late-night concerts.
“I’ve got an 8:30 class tomorrow,” Sam would mutter to himself in bed. He tried all sorts of remedies: trying to ignore it; trying to embrace it, treating it as a lullaby; lying down on his side; wearing earplugs, although the guitar cut through both the wall and the plugs somehow; lying down on his side with earplugs on (this method was successful once in junior year when Martin was snoring–it blocked out significantly more noise than when he was lying on his back), and so on. When eventually none of them worked, Sam would sit up, realize that it was today now instead of tomorrow, and swear to himself. But with all that has happened since the forever ago that was senior year, those hushed notes were now one of my favorite sounds. Why stop at muffled notes? I thought, and walked to the door to see the show live.
The carpeted hallway of the dorm looked like the innards of a gray python. The hall was quite narrow, requiring one person to turn to their side for two people to pass each other. The walls were the same whitewashed kind in the dorms, and the dim yellow lights overhead lit the way past the dormitories to the end of the hall, where one of the entrances to a faculty apartment was. Dimmed lights in the hallway–that’s how I knew that it was really late. At six, the lights in the dormitories would come on and keep their brightness up until 2:00 a.m., after which they would begin to dim. To see dimmed lights in the hall meant that you wouldn’t be learning anything in class the next day. 
I took a half step down the gray carpet and knocked on the door next to mine. It opened without hesitation. There were no questions of “Who’s there” or even a pause in his singing. At this hour, he knew.
“Girl From Ipanema?” I asked as I entered.
“Yeah. I think I’m really getting the hang of it now.”
Martin’s room was a mirrored version of my mine, with the desk on the left as you entered instead of the right. If my room had a method to its madness, well, Martin’s room was just madness. A duffle bag with his gym clothes and a basketball lay with its zipper half-open on the floor. His blankets were twisted into a swirl on his bed, while the bedsheets were loose and wrinkled in the shape of waves. Martin liked to keep his room dark. Even during study hall, he would have the lights off, depending only on his desk lamp. The lamp cast a spotlight on his desk, revealing textbooks and sheets of paper and wires overlapping with each other. On the corner of his desk was a half-eaten bowl of cereal, a bit too close to his strumming hand for comfort, but we were both used to it. Martin and I had many late-night snacking sessions, where we would devour a variety of junk foods, ranging from chips to sugary cereal to our favorite, instant noodles. The number of such sessions that we’ve had since junior year must be in the triple digits, for sure. We’d cook ourselves some noodles in Martin’s pot and put a movie on a laptop. We’d open a bag of chips and talk about girls past one, two, or sometimes even three in the morning. When either of us knocked on each other’s doors, we would be greeted not with a hello, but rather with a flying packet of ramen. I had a box of junk food below my desk–an arm’s reach from both the bed and the desk, of course–and so did he. 
I grabbed an open box of cereal off of his desk shelf, poured it into one of his bowls, and sat on the bed to listen to him sing in a low voice. He slowly strummed the last chord at the end of the song and looked up to me with a smile as it reverberated softly. 
“Dinner was kinda bad today, wasn’t it?” he asked when the chord had died out.
But I couldn’t answer that, because I didn’t remember what dinner was. It had been years for me, after all. To Martin, this was a regular Wednesday night. Tomorrow he would wake up, see Sam in the bathroom as he brushed his teeth, skip breakfast because he was running late to class, go biking after school, struggle with homework, and play guitar late into the night. Maybe he’ll knock on his neighbor’s door at one in the morning, and see his roommate grinning ear-to-ear with two packets of instant ramen when it opens. Maybe they’ll decide to watch a movie and quietly shuffle downstairs to microwave some popcorn. All I knew for sure was that whoever he would see in the morning, whoever he did his homework with, whoever he played guitar for and ate ramen and lamented about girls with, would not be me. 
When sleepiness clouded the conversation, slowing it down to a natural end, I bid Martin good night. I walked back to my empty room, took one and a half steps, and plopped down onto the damp sheets.
________________
3
Ice Cream






Or maybe it’s more like playing an old video game. One where you lose progress if you quit before saving. Yes, I think that would be the best way to explain it. Like picking out a level or a checkpoint and playing it again from that spot. The starting point, always identical, but leading to different places as you make different choices. And when you have to turn the game off in a hurry before you can save because Mom is scolding you, saying that you’ll end up like a bum glued to video games like that–all of the choices, the changes, the progress–gone. 
        I woke up during the crack of dawn to see the streets enveloped in the color of orange cement. It was a time when most people were still asleep, a time for alarm clocks to get out of bed. I packed my possessions: two pieces of thick, ragged cardboard, a gray blanket stained to black; a backpack that someone threw and away, and inside it my precious notebook, a pen, what little money I had, a once-clear plastic case now opaque from scratches that held my toothpaste and toothbrush, and my wooden bowl. I headed to Downtown Brooklyn, where foot traffic was better.
        The alarm clocks had done their job, and the streets were bustling with strangers made unkind by hurry. The orange glow was gone now, defeated by the harsh concrete, leaving everything around to be the flat tone of gray. I sat on the two pieces of cardboard with my back leaning against a building and my bowl placed in front. Across the street, another gentleman was in the same pose, except that he was holding a cardboard sign. It read: “Won’t buy cigarettes or alcohol or drugs I promise. Just need food & toiletries. Anything helps. Thank you and God bless.” I didn’t have a sign like that. Not because I had a good reason against it, but simply because I didn’t know what to put on it. The writing on the cardboard signs of the homeless was an intricate craft. To explain your life so far, the situation you’re in, your needs–and to convince a complete stranger to help you on top of that, all on a measly piece of cardboard? I had pages upon pages to do just that with my college applications, and I still failed.[a]
        The gentleman’s sign did the job just fine. It addressed the concern many people had with giving people on the streets cash: that they would be spending it on smokes, alcohol, or drugs, even if most of the time it went to things like socks, toiletries, and food. Some used the misconception to their benefit, writing something along the lines of “Why lie? Need money for beer,” hoping that humor would be the key to opening both the hearts and the wallets of strangers. This method could be effective, but only for those who saw it for the first time. It wouldn’t take them long to realize that the joke was commonplace. Personally, I felt that it was better to stick to the tried-and-true. A simple sentence explaining my needs, followed by a “Thank you and God bless,” maybe. 
        I took out my notebook from the backpack to pass the time. It contained a list of recollections, a catalog of memories I wanted bookmarked. Anytime I remembered a new scene from my days in Monterey, I noted it down for a later visit. Here were some of the options: going biking after school with Martin and Gordon in the horse trails around the school, having cilantro ice cream (a monstrosity that should not have existed, but Rachel–Rachel loved it) at the creamery in Alvarado Street, decorating the dorms at the beginning of the year, and going on my first date of the year. The list wasn’t well organized, but I liked it that way. With the list this way it felt incomplete, with always more memories to be added onto. I wanted the list to be like an ice cream parlor with endless flavors. One where I could leave with the comfort of knowing that there would always be a new flavor to try–even if that flavor was cilantro.
        I settled on a memory. It was about a caramel-flavored Sunday on which nothing happened.
* * *
It was one of those lazy weekend afternoons that made you guilty. Guilty, because you had done nothing all day but the sun was already setting. It was too late to start anything at that point, so you would just stay in bed, watching the orange of the sun fill the room. Nothing was happening, nothing was special, and you could just drift away. 
In those ordinary, now extraordinary afternoons, you could usually find me in my tiny room with Martin, floating down the lazy pool of time. Regardless of the season, the yearning scent of Autumn would flow in through the window with every breeze, intermingling with the percussive beats of Martin’s guitar in the air. I would be on my laptop and Martin on his guitar, taking turns falling asleep.
On most visits, I liked to take different paths, but in memories like these, I preferred to spend it the same way I had originally. Not long after I arrived, my eyelids began to grow heavy. I reclined my chair and gently swiveled to the left to watch Martin play the guitar. His fingers were hypnotizing, weaving effortlessly through guitar strings like water.
I was relieved to wake up to the sun-basked walls of my room rather than the gray pavements of New York City. I didn’t check the time–there was no need to back then, and there was no need now. The sunrays that painted the whitewashed walls orange were more saturated now, as if someone had mixed a drop of blood in it. Martin was still playing his guitar. I wouldn’t have been surprised if he was playing the whole time I was asleep, however long that may have been. Martin was a man that was late to class more because he was playing the guitar than because he overslept, and he overslept a lot.
The laptop hummed to life as I opened it to go through its calendar. Between all the schedules and the events, calendars were a good place to go hunting for lost memories. The hunts were successful most of the time, but the way Sam titled the events was regrettable. So many expectations were littered throughout all of them. It was not just in the titles, but in the descriptions, the reminders, the word choices, and even the punctuation. It killed me to see an exclamation mark anywhere. Using an exclamation mark when describing the future was to make a promise to yourself that couldn’t be kept. What was Sam thinking, putting all these exclamation marks everywhere? He was a 7-year-old on his birthday, balloons taped to the walls and a big cake in the center of his table, clapping in his cone-shaped hat covered in glitter. And I was his mother as the sun went down, carefully approaching him to pat him on the back and to bring him back inside when none of his friends had shown up.
I went through each event, removing the exclamation marks and changing the descriptions to be as matter-of-fact as they could be, making each event sound as monotone as possible. It was pointless, as if I could somehow let Sam down easy, but my fingers kept on. The soothing whispers of Martin’s guitar slowly blended into silence as I played the ruthless editor. He was asleep on the bed, his right hand perched over the guitar’s soundhole. This was probably Martin’s most common sleeping position. He wasn’t a back sleeper, a stomach sleeper, or a side sleeper, no–he was a guitar-on-top-of-stomach sleeper. 
After editing the calendar for a while more with Martin’s soft snores in the backdrop, I turned my attention to the procrastination-laced homework around my desk. One of them was a worksheet for calculus, and I was surprised to find that I could still solve some of the questions. For the past three and a half years or so, the only math I had done was counting how much was in my bowl. Yet there I was, my hand remembering the equations and theorems I had long forgotten.
Martin’s guitar headbutted the wall, clanging an unnamed, or rather an unnameable note. I chuckled and said, “Good morning.”
Martin responded with a long, unintelligible groan that could only be understood by seals and long-time roommates. He was asking how long he had slept; I told him about how long. In response, he sat up, set the guitar down to not give it any more concussions, and slumped against the wall with his eyes closed and his arms crossed. He wanted to get up, but he was too tired to commit to it. So instead he was resting his eyes, telling himself that he wouldn’t go back to sleep because he was sitting up. I often found him sleeping this way back when we were rooming together. It might as well have been his second-most common sleeping position: to be leaning against the wall, his head drooping forward so that his body made the shape of a C. It was a wonder how it wasn’t doing a number on his neck and back.
Martin suddenly jolted up, a loud wail powering his ascent. He cracked that miracle neck of his, ran his hands across his face, and stretched his arms. His eyelids were drooping and his eyes were pink, but there was a little fire behind them, a hint of mischievousness. 
It was a look that I was all too familiar with so I knew he would ask:
“You wanna write a song?”
Martin and I had always talked about being in a band together. If we weren’t talking about our romantic woes, we were talking about our band. As I’ve said, I wasn’t any good at the guitar–the electric in my room was more furniture than instrument. I learned from Martin here and there, but never on a consistent schedule, and practicing on my own was a rare occurrence. As a result, most of my playing amounted to strumming the few chords I knew or fiddling a butchered version of a recognizable guitar lick. Nevertheless, being in a band with Martin always seemed like a good idea to me. It made for a good backstory: two roommates from a boarding school, who had started a band in their dorm room. 
The dream was more plausible for Martin, who wanted to study music and be a musician in New York City. According to Martin, studying music in New York was a bit like studying computer science in California, or petroleum engineering in Texas. It was where the subject thrived and job opportunities abounded. He knew that I wanted to study business, well, not in the way that he wanted to study music but at least that I had planned to, and he would push me to also apply to colleges in New York. When asked why, his reason was simple but sufficient: He would yell out “Wall Street!”
So his plan was for the both of us to be in New York City, in a two-man band. We would be “just like Simon and Garfunkel,” he’d say. And whenever the plan came up, we humored it as best we could. Why stop at just being in New York City? What if we ended up going to the same school? Then we would both laugh as the realization struck us–if we went to the same school, we might as well be roommates again!
All that babble seemed so plausible back then.
To get closer to being a two-man band and to prove to ourselves that it wasn’t just a pipe dream, we would write songs. Most of them were about Hannah, the girl that Martin had been infatuated with throughout senior year. Now when it came to women he liked, Martin may have well been playing spin-the-wheel: He’d be head over heels for some girl, then in a month or two forget all about her and almost be worshiping another. His head was a rent-free apartment with a high turnover rate. Hannah was the exception. He started having feelings for her at the beginning of the year, and as far as I was able to know, it continued (I wonder sometimes if they ever ended up getting together after I had to leave). I would help him the best I could, which included morning pep talks before class, late-night counseling sessions with ramen, deep analyses into her actions and replies, and of course, writing love songs about her with him.
I suggested the melodies by humming them out, and Martin would play them by ear. We tried different lyrics over the chords, rearranging them like puzzle pieces until they no longer fought against the rhythm. After an hour, we played through what we had and nodded to each other when Martin’s final note whispered its last words. The progress was satisfactory. Good enough to show Gordon on Monday.
“I really like it–especially how honest it is. I hope you get to play it to Hannah one day,” Gordon would say, without a doubt. And just as his laughs to all of our jokes were unfeigned, so would be his praise.
“I think I’ll head on back for now,” said Martin, picking up his guitar. “See you at dinner?”
I nodded and said of course, knowing all too well that while he would, I would not. Only the last lights of the weekend kept me company in the empty room once Martin left. An autumn breeze gently flew in. My jaws were hurting from laughing for too long.
________________
4
Savannah






Again the murmur of the cypress trees was replaced with the shrieking of the streets. The sky was murky and covered thick with clouds, the color of the concrete pavements below them. The sun was hidden behind the thick clouds, but it must have been well past noon. Nearly an afternoon in Monterey amounted to a few hours in New York. The difference between how much time had actually passed and how much time I had spent in my dreams never followed an exact formula, but it did have a pattern: Time surpassed in New York was always less than the time spent in Monterey.
Dinner was a limp sandwich and a small bottle of water from the convenience store. I plodded along the streets afterward, searching for a new spot to settle down in and admiring the signs of the homeless. There was much to be learned from them. A few days ago I got some advice from an elderly man, who claimed that he was used to this life and laughed when I said that I had only been out here for less than a month. 
“Don’t take food unless you saw them buy it at the store, or unless it’s packaged, and even then be careful,” he began. “Keep yourself visible when you sleep–alleys and dark places may seem safe because you’re secluded, but that just means nobody can see what’s happening to [b]you. Which means,” he put a bony finger in the air, “anybody can steal from you, hurt you.” He then asked what had gotten me out here, a young man like myself.
Halfway through concocting a lie, I decided to tell a part of the truth instead.  “Parents disowned me,” I said. I didn't want the man to know that my parents lived in a luxurious high-rise in Upper Manhattan. In response, the man simply nodded, scratching the gray stubble on his chin as if to say that he's seen it many times before.
I wasn’t looking for a new spot because I needed one, but because I had to burn time. I promised myself to keep to a limit of two visits a day: one while the sun was up, and the other as I went to sleep.  It was a way to avoid depleting new memories too fast–to show restraint at the ice cream shop. 
Hours later, I settled on a spot across the street from a subway station. There, I took out my notebook again and began work on my daily quota. Two new memories remembered a day meant I could keep my visits sustainable. Even a minute, near-insignificant detail was good enough. It didn't matter how small it was when it could act as a window to an entire day in Monterey. Take the memory of the time I broke a plate in the dining hall. It was an embarrassing experience, sure, but one that wasn't too significant. But visiting that memory meant I could visit Monterey on the day it happened, and there was great merit in that. So any detail, no matter how small–actions, words, people, even the weather–were invaluable. Each one of them was a map to Treasure Island.
Still, on some days I would be left with a blank page, burning a hole through my reservoir of memories. That was when the favorites section of the notebook came in handy. It was a separate list of my most beloved memories near the end of the notebook. These were the memories I would never get bored of, the ones I could visit time after time. 
A little boy in front of the subway station across the street was pointing right at me. With one hand he tugged on his mother’s mink coat, while the other constantly stabbed away. The mother looked down at the child and then to where he was pointing, and quickly pulled his hand down. She bent down to his ear, whispered something, quickly glared in my direction, then whispered into her baby’s ear again. The child carefully snuck in a glance at me, nodded to his mother, and the two of them went their way, the child’s hand in the mother’s.
I shut the notebook with my palm. I was going to visit Savannah, already for the fifth time this week.
* * *
Savannah Yang was an odd girl. She was the twin sister of Hannah. Her hair was the color of the calm night sea, while her eyes were about as dark except with a tint of brown. When it came to her clothes, she preferred darker shades. I don’t think that I have ever seen her in bright yellows, whites, beiges, or blues. Always she wore a black beanie, regardless of the season, tattered but still neat. In the memory of her car on the wharf near Alvarado Street that I visited today, she wore a purple hoodie with black jeans.
        She knew about Martin's feelings for Hannah and wanted to help, and it was in our efforts to get Hannah and Martin together that I got to know her senior year. Every weekend or so, we would plan fake dates for them disguised as simple get-togethers between friends. It would be the four of us, Hannah and her and Martin and I, with us two trying to get the sparks to fly. The specific memory I visited took place after such a dinner date. Sam and Savannah were parked on the wharf next to Monterey Municipal Beach, having dropped off the two potential lovebirds on the sandy shores after dinner. That was how most of their plans went: the four of them would have the meal, and afterward either Sam or Savannah would make an excuse so that they could leave Martin and Hannah on their own for a while. Hannah must have caught onto it and about Martin’s feelings as well after a certain point, but I think she was amused by it and let it play out anyway. It was that or she didn’t know what to do about it, which was fine, because neither did Martin
Her car, with all of its lights off and the engine sleeping, was as odd as she was. It was a beaten-up black sedan overrun with scratches and bumper stickers, a home to a gaggle of stuffed animals. A frog dwelled in one of the cupholders. A unicorn rolled around in the back seat. A tiny smiling whale was tied to the gear selector. A family of sea otters peeked their heads from the side compartment of the passenger seat door. While not a plushie, a miniature plastic skeleton (aptly named Mr. Skeleton) hung from one of the coat hooks, always missing a different limb somehow. With them, the car was a beautiful mess, a year-long witch’s hut, with Savannah as the mother of the brood.
A car freshener far from fresh suspended from the rearview mirror, long retired. What filled the air instead was the scent of Savannah’s detergent and the hum of the radio. Her music was made by bands neither you nor I have ever heard of, the kind of band that made music never to be seen on the top charts. Their songs were forlorn voices reciting poetry; they sounded like the best parts of high school. I often came out of her car with a list of bands to check out.
Savannah Yang was an odd girl. If she were ever to be in a focus group, she would need to be categorized separately as herself. She was quiet and never had a large group of people orbiting around her. Most of the time, it was just her and her sister. I think she tried not to draw too much attention to her, keeping quiet like a shadow, but in a way that seemed to draw more attention to her, like a black hole in a universe painted white. Sometimes in conversations around campus, it would come up that the Yang Twins lived with their grandmother, who was ill and could not walk very well. It wasn’t that Savannah was an outcast in any way, and Hannah definitely wasn’t, but she was a bit of an oddity, like what Pluto was among the planets.
Savannah Yang was many things. She was the twin sister of my roommate’s love. She was the mother to a gaggle of animal plushies. She had one beanie for the entire year. She was a good granddaughter to her Gram. But most peculiar of all, she believed me. She believed that I was a time traveler from about three years in the future, that I had been here many times before and had all sorts of conversations with her. Every time I visit, I tell her. And every time, she believes, without fail. It, like the rest of the world, could not seem to surprise her. She alone was the only one I ever told, and the only one that would believe. Perhaps the former because of the latter.
If there was ever an appropriate place to tell someone that you were a homeless time traveler, it was in her car by that wharf at night. The wharf was empty and dark, and only the green glow of the dashboard illuminated the inside of the car, making us two shadows with faint green silhouettes, not much more than two voices floating in the darkness. And when we talked, our seats leaned back, gazing out to the black ocean and the faint silver outline of the Municipal Beach unfolding in front of us, we became invisible from the rest of the world and no longer a part of it. It was a scene that accelerated friendship, the opening of hearts, the pouring and confessions, and the exchange of words both thoughtful and loving. And Savannah was the catalyst for all of the above. She knew the exact point at which the other person wanted the conversation to take a solemn tone. Her voice changed from bright and playful to calm and understanding, her quick chuckles into slow nods, the “Yeah’s” into soft “Mhm’s.”
The sound of the waves canceled out the hum of the radio. Outside, the waves dissipated and retreated as they reached the shore. Savannah and I sat in silence for a while, melting into the dark night air.
“Think Martin’s doing okay out there?” I said finally.
        “He’ll be fine, Josh. I thought he was quite charming today,” said Savannah.
        “Easy for you to say when you don’t have to spend the rest of the weekend analyzing everything that happened.”
        “Hm. If you only knew,” said Savannah, which made me raise my eyebrows. 
        Back to silence again. Three more waves, I told myself. Three more waves and I’ll tell her.
        “Hey, Savannah?”
        “Mhm?”
        “Can I tell you something?”
        “No time you can’t.”
        “Something ridiculous.”
        “Nothing new under the sun.”
        “I’m some sort of a… time traveler.” I still struggled with the line every time, like an actor with permanent stage fright. 
        Her eyes, devoid of surprise but instead filled with the warm glow of a worried lighthouse, beckoned me to go on. How did she do it?
        “I time travel, but only in my dreams, and only within my memories,” I said. “I reminisce on a memory as I fall asleep, and I find myself there. And everything is exactly as it was back then, but I can relive it. I can say different things, make different choices, and see how it would have been if I said and did those things, you know? Like playing a perfect simulation of the world back then.” I sighed out a short breath as I searched for the next line. “But it won’t change anything in the present, in my life, because it’s all just in my dreams–wake up, and it’s all gone.”
        When I first decided to tell her, I filled a few good pages of my little notebook preparing for all of the reactions I could think of. One where she stares, confused and not knowing how to respond. One where she laughs it off. One where she isn’t sure if it’s a joke or not and becomes concerned. Another where thinks of it as a game and plays along. And in the case of a miracle that she believed me, I prepared a list of answers to possible questions.
        When did you first notice it?
        Not too long ago. More than a month, two months at the most.
        How did you get it to happen?
        I’m not sure. I would go to sleep thinking about Monterey a lot, and eventually I realized that I was reliving the scenes I was reminiscing about. I don’t exactly remember when it went from simple dreams to the kind I have now, but I think that was a gradual process.
        Have you told anyone?
        Only you.
        How do you know that it isn’t a lucid dream?
        I’ve wondered that myself. Besides them being too vivid, it’s that I don’t have complete control over them. I can only do what I would have been able to do back then. I can’t suddenly change the weather or fly or anything like that. Another reason, and this one is more crucial, is that I can seem to find out about things that I didn’t know about. Like how your grandmother used to have a cat. His name was Lucky, right? I didn’t know that back then. But in one of my previous conversations with you, it came up.
        I spent a few days trying to cover as much ground as possible. But it all turned out to be pointless, because there was one question that never crossed my mind. It was the easiest one to answer, and also the first questions she always asked.
        “Are you visiting right now?” she asked.
        Savannah Yang was an odd girl.